as I'm sure you guys know I absolutely
love Dell's XPS 15 and even though this
thing is living on a tiny bit more it
has been replaced and its replacement is
a bit complicated let's have a look at
the new Dell X ps6 and
it's decisions all right we've got a
black box here there it is let's go
beneath for a second Dell is still
including a dongle with their laptops
right here I do like to see that cuz
everyone else that's like oh we took
away your IO but at least we gave you a
dongle they all stopped giving you
dongles but Dell fortunately has kept
with
it this is all paper so I do enjoy
seeing that plug it in hit the power
button there you go for charging we have
130 watt brick and that's being
delivered over USB type c ooh oh I I
just picked it up to take off this it
looks nice but man this thing is
heavy let's get at the scale for
comparison I have the XPS 15 here that
is
4.37 lb not light but somewhat
acceptable I also have the zephrus
g16 4.2 pretty good pretty good and now
the new XPS 16 5
PB yeah this thing you pick it up and it
is heavy now why is this so heavy
because glass I really really liked on
the old xps15 how a lot of it was made
out of carbon fiber carbon fiber is a
great material for a laptop because it
is light another really good material
for laptops also is magnesium you see
lots of laptops using that these days do
you know what's not Light Glass and lots
of it here we have glass all along here
glass all up here extra thick Gorilla
Glass up here and that all means that
this thing right here is going to be
hurting your back if you have it in your
backpack for a while In fairness I
should be comparing this to the XPS 17
maybe because that was a bit more
comparable maybe 2 mm thicker than the
old
XPS but also why compared to the old XPS
17 when we have new Asus g16 which is
way more comparable it's maybe exactly
the same thickness now seeing that
they're the same thickness and the g16
has things like type a full sizee SD
card reader and
HDMI what can we find on the
XPS well it's pretty similar to the old
one in that it kind of sucks so on the
left we have two Thunderbolt fours and
on the right we have just USB type-c
headphone microphone combo Jack and a
Micro SD card reader which I hate Dell
says that this right here is acceptable
because it is as fast as a Micro SD card
reader can be in a laptop but at the
same time when I'm doing photography
stuff my camera does not have a micro SD
card it has a fullsize SD card and it
was so nice to be able just go over and
do a bunch of photos and then come back
in Chuck it right in here have it
immediately go into Lightroom wonderful
stuff I do feel like I was a lot more
optimistic four years ago when the old
xps15 came out that we would just all be
switching to USB type-c but now for
whatever reason in 2024 we feel almost
further away from that than ever it is
pretty though it is really pretty I have
to give them that it's almost as pretty
as our sponsor all right Belle what does
dbrand have for me this is D Brand's new
hydro dip skin it comes in five
different
colorways why why didn't we just use
this one this looks awesome so is this a
skin or is it actually hydr dep so it is
just a skin I mean they just make
expensive stickers and they're actually
not making it for laptops what but they
do have it for phones oh
fancy so we've got all of the colors
right here we've got solar flare cotton
candy bubble gum toxic waste and Gold
Rush it's available for smartphones
right now but sadly not for laptops
unless you are Bros with dbrand but if
you want it for laptops or gaming
consoles or handhelds you should go and
just bu bug dbrand on Twitter get get
them mad maybe they'll give you $10,000
yeah maybe they'll give you
$10,000 there's almost no way that I'm
going to be able to show you what I am
seeing but the problem that I have is
that there's just it looks like
dirtiness so you have the digitizer for
the touchscreen that has to be overlaid
over the pixels that display your stuff
and the problem is is that a lot of LCDs
have different subpixel layouts than the
oleds so you can have that digitizer
somewhat blocking the sub pixels of your
OLED screen and it creates kind of like
a dirtiness now when I'm back here where
I'll mostly be using the laptop it's
fine but if I get into about right here
I am able to see that digitizer over top
of the OLED sub pixels so the whole
thing just looks kind of dirty future
Alex here we are having some trouble
with the display but an update has
solved that and it is now absolutely
fantastic digit ER aside now one thing
that's a little bit strange is we have
Dell Premiere color and we also have my
Dell they both choose different modes
and stuff and they will compete against
each other and make things bad so just
choose one of them but once you've done
that it is absolutely fantastic in SDR
we measured 390 nits Peak brightness for
the whole window which is excellent and
even better we had an average Delta e of
1.6 which means that you could very
easily use this for professional photos
work at the same time in HDR it goes up
to 630 nits Peak brightness on the whole
panel 100% window size that is freaking
fantastic and also it has really good
color accuracy as well with an average
luminance error of 17.4 and an
average the other one of 6.9 I honestly
don't understand HDR metrics Labs
results aside this is also just a
fantastic panel it is 3840 by
2490 HZ so even though it is a little
bit dirty from that
digitizer it looks really freaking good
and I do really appreciate that it's an
OLED with a touchscreen we don't get a
whole lot of that also for power saving
it will go down to 48 HZ but we do not
have g-sync on this so let's go to one
of the other controversial bits of this
laptop the keyboard
the keyboard's Fantastic it is a little
bit strange with the zero lattice layout
that they have here but the way that
it's dished makes it pretty easy to find
your keys I haven't had too many
problems with the layout like I've seen
people complain about the backspace
being over here I haven't had any issues
with that and overall I think it is
really good like I'm going to give this
a solid a and I'm going to downgrade it
to an A minus or maybe a B+ because of
up here so so we very sadly do not get
actual function rows and instead have to
deal with this Bad Touch bar knockoff we
first saw this on the Dell XPS 13 plus
and I'm very sad that it's made its way
over here in particular the most
egregious thing here is the Escape key
there's so many times where you're just
doing a thing and you go Boop and with
no physical button here it's much easier
to just miss it you'll hit there hit
there hit there or something like that
it's just nowhere near as accurate or
generally good as a physical button the
rest are
okayish I just want buttons guys is it
really that hard below that though is
the touchpad and this is controversial
but at the same time I don't think it
should be cuz it is really really good
we can see that it starts right around
there is and
ends around there and you might suspect
that you'll have problems finding it but
it's so big that I have never had that
problem it's Force touch so it has
little pasos below it that measure the
force and give you a little when you
click it in and it works really nice the
tracking is super accurate I've had no
problems with the Palm rejection and
overall I just think it's a really good
touchpad but back to the other glass
covered bin on the Dell XPS 13 plus
where we very first saw this capacitive
layer up here I gave it a little bit of
a pass because that was the fastest
13-in notebook Dell says that they use
these capacitive touch buttons so they
can have more room for cooling and just
more power and on the XPS 13 plus they
did that it is the fastest 13-in
notebook but this right
here is it the fastest 16in well let's
have a little look at the specs
that's not Escape there we
go so for performance we get an Intel
Core Ultra 7
155h 32 GB of RAM running at 7467 megat
transfers per second a 1 TB nvme SSD
Intel WiFi 7 love to see that got an npu
for AI boosting crap and also an RTX 470
now in this 40 70 version right here we
have a vapor chamber for cooling and on
the 4060 and lower you get some heat
pipes now going back to our whole
capacitive buttons give us the most
power we don't get that here so the RTX
470 in this sadly only gets 60 wats of
power dedicated to it and the total
system power is 80 comparing that to
this laptop which has has inconvenient
things like a function row has 85 Watts
dedicated just to the GPU and this also
comes with a 4080 version which can go
up to 955 Watts on the GPU so the XPS 16
is not the fastest 16-in laptop by a lot
now we did compare these two laptops and
it might seem a little bit unfair to
have the 4070 version of the xps1 16 and
the 4080 version of the g16 but we did
that because they are price comparable
and also like they both have OLED panels
so I think it is pretty fair and uh yeah
turns out a 4080 is way freaking faster
than a 4070 absolute shocker looking at
in cyberpunk 106 FPS on the Asus 81 on
the Dell f123 Asus 157 XPS 118 total
Warhammer
9360 so it's not looking too good good
oh I'm so sorry D all right even though
this is not the most performant gaming
laptop in existence because it's not a
gaming laptop shocker I know it should
still be really good here's our good
friend Paul okay we need to damn it no
Escape key we going to want to turn it
down to like 2560 x600 cuz it can't
quite do 4K but looking at this here
we're getting a pretty solid ah 60 FPS
and I've seen it go up to 90 or so in
valheim so that is really quite good
given the settings that we have but that
is at that
1600p and not at the 4K that you really
really want the 4070 just cannot do that
high of a resolution that said though
panel extremely responsive you can just
whip around right here so I do think
that you can very easily be gaming on
this PC and have quite a good time just
as long as you don't expect to be doing
full 4K gaming in modern games and just
as long as you don't want to be able to
easily get Escape now Dell says the
speakers on this are the best they've
ever made four speakers 10 watts and
apparently it's really good future Alex
again uh so we tested the speakers on
this guy and it turns out they aren't
very good that's because they're blown
from the factory uh quality control
probably still getting worked out very
early in production here but fortunately
dbrand sent us one and it is just fine
so let's let's have a little crab Reef
here all right that sounds a lot cleaner
than
before that's pretty good that's pretty
darn good that's really loud I'm talking
very loud right
now but one thing that I've noticed
that's interesting is that the sound
profile kind of changes depending on the
volume you get a lot more bass like
around here and then I think that
dynamic range compression is kind of
removing it way up here like it's way
more trebly now more screechy full
volume
stop stop but can it compare to the
MacBook 14 all right Dell XPS
16 MacBook Pro
[Music]
oh h
I think the MacBook wins the Dell
definitely got a little bit louder but
it was kind of chy when it was at full
volume whereas the MacBook sounds a lot
more
just balanced in general all right now
one area that Dell has said that they've
vastly improved this laptop is the
webcam and it looks like they are very
correct there looking at right here
we're at 1080p moving around it's
exposing for my face really oh it's not
there uh direct light maybe not but the
second that we go right there it has
figured it out moving around it's
figuring all of this out really well to
expose for my face and as long as you're
not like pointing it at the sun it seems
like you're going to have a pretty good
time overall so good job there Dell you
finally made a webcam that's good 8 T5
screws later and we are in and we can
see this Vapor chamber that we have
right here which does a decent job it
does an okay job not the best job not
the worst job why did they need to do
the function row like we only have
actual cooling fins here and here which
like there's almost some space over here
where they could have some cooling lots
of laptops do but mostly just like why
the do I have to have that stupid
capacitive touch button if there's not
going to be heat sink in there like it's
clearly not for cooling if all of this
is not cooling stuff I just do not
understand it like this would be so much
of a better laptop if they're able to
get like another 25 watts out of the GPU
but they just they just haven't also
very disappointing is that Dell took a
whole bunch of time to create a
compression attached memory module so
that allows you to have a super thin
super fast replaceable memory on your
laptop so you're going have something
that's nice and slim but at the same
time still upgradeable not here Ram
soldered down very sad and it looks like
our Wi-Fi card is as well now one area
that they have vastly improved with the
Dell X ps16 though is in battery life
this new generation of Intel chips has
proven that they are fantastically
efficient compared to the old ones and
when you pair that with a 99.5 wat hour
battery and the fact that OLED
technology on laptops has progressed to
where it's not too much of a a battery
hit this thing is great we were able to
get 12 hours out of it in our endurance
test fan freaking fastic now let's do
our double-sided SSD test Chuck it in
here you might want to get a different
thermal pad for right here this seems a
tiny bit thick but that is a really easy
replacement and there's nothing that I
can see below yeah there's nothing below
it so just replace this thermal pad with
one that's slightly thinner and you are
all good for a double-sided SSD in here
so the Dell XPS 16 I do feel like I've
been a little bit hard on it maybe a
little bit too hard on it but there is a
good reason the price this thing starts
at
$1,900 and that does not get you a
dedicated GPU that also gets you a 1200p
display without touch so just to kind of
get in the door you need to do an extra
$400 for this OLED panel which is makes
it like an acceptable panel for a laptop
in this price range and then what's this
one
$3,400 this one is
$3,400
ouch it's a sort of thing where I can
accept the compromises of this weird
capacitive thing and the glass down here
if it was obscenely fast if this thing
just walked over other laptops maybe we
could accept it but this thing makes a
MacBook Pro seem reasonably priced this
thing right here you can buy a razor
blade that is similarly spec for less
money I I don't know Dell needs to go
and just figure some stuff out because
with the iio and the performance of this
thing it's very very hard to recommend
I'm I'm sorry guys so huge thanks for
watching guys hit like get subscribed
and just have a great all day see you
later